This directory contains an SSD add-on to the DiskSim simulation
environment.  This add-on is authored by Ted Wobber and Vijayan
Prabhakaran at MSR Silicon Valley.  Dushyanth Narayanan did the
port of DiskSim to Windows/VisualStudio. 

This is not a simulator for any specific SSD, but rather a simulator
for an idealized SSD that is parameterized by the properties of NAND
flash chips such as read, write, and erase latency.  

There are various tuning parameters.  Please see the ssdmodel module
specification for more information.  It is worth noting that the
current SSD add-on does not simulate a read or write cache.

Apply this add-on by unpacking the enclosed into the ssdmodel
subdirectory of the DiskSim source tree (so as to be parallel to
memsmodel, etc.)  Then run the following patch script.

    patch -p1 < ssdmodel/ssd-patch

This patch script is valid for the DiskSim 4.0 release of 6/23/2008.
After successfully running the patch script, Unix/Linux/CygWin "make"
on the top level of DiskSim creates an executable that supports SSD
simulation.

In addition, the patch script creates a w32build directory that is
suitable for building the simulator in Microsoft VisualStudio.  Note,
however, that in order to build in this environment, you must first
run the "relex" and "remod" scripts in the w32build directory.  These
scripts must be run *once* under cygwin (or equivalent) with flex and
bison support.

The VisualStudio build file is w32build/disksim.sln.  The build
produces a ton of warnings, but should otherwise work.

The ssdmodel subdirectory contains a valid subdirectory that contains
SSD-specific simulator tests.  To run these, execute the runvalid
command in ssdmodel/valid.

